# Release 2.1.0

## New Features
- Added support for running `.wast` format test scripts. The extracted interpreter is now fully conformant with the Wasm official test suite (SIMD excluded). A mirror of the test suite repository is added as a GitHub submodule.
- Added support for passing arguments via the CLI.
- Added support for executing Wasm text format modules (`.wat`).
- Added an implementation of persistent arrays, adapted from an implementation in the Rocq kernel. The files are located `src/Parray` and licensed under GNU LGPL 2.1 license due to the original license requirement from the Rocq kernel code. 
- Added native support for module import/export across multiple modules without manually saving the store states.
- Added implementation of the new sign extension numeric operation.

## Refactorings
- Reworked the memory typeclass and properly encapsulated the provided interfaces; the proofs now only use the exposed interfaces instead of inspecting into the list memory implementation. Added a new vector (dynamic array) implementation of memory based on a parametric array, which is extracted to persistent arrays.

## Dependency Updates
- Updated the repository to work with MathComp version 2.x.
- Added a new dependency on the Wasm reference implementation for parsing text format and `.wast` scripts. A custom mirror of the official Wasm implementation in the WasmCert organisation is currently used, since the version on `opam` is out of date.

## Bugfixes

### Parser
- Added utf8 validity check and size checks for names and custom sections in the parser.
- Added a check on requiring the datacount section in the parser.
- Added size bound to the leb128 numerics parsing.
- Fixed a bug where the parser only allows the shortest integer representation for certain leb128-coded arguments.
- Fixed a bug where the arguments of `call_indirect` were parsed in an incorrect order.
- Fixed a bug where the payloads of `nan` were parsed incorrectly.
- Prevented cases where the parser could run indefinitely for certain invalid Wasm modules with large length arguments.
- Fixed a bug where certain variants of `i64.store` instructions were parsed incorrectly.

### Type system
- Fixed a bug where the typing of `br_table` was overly restrictive in unreachable code segments due to the subtyping rules.
- Added several missing cases in the `ref` field of the typing context generated during instantiation where the original context was overly restrictive.

### Others
- Fixed a bug where `alloc_module` produced incorrect extern values in the export when the module also imports from the host. This bug was introduced during the 2.0 update when the `exportinsts` field was added to the module instance.
- Fixed several bugs in wrapper functions for CompCert numerics on the sign of infinities and zeros in some edge cases.

## Miscellaneous
- Several performance-critical operations involving numerics now go through binary integers instead of `nat`.
- Added a call stack depth argument in the interpreter for modelling stack exhaustion for `.wast` test suite.
- Changed extraction of binary-integer-indexed list lookups to a modified function checking for the length first to avoid comparing large binary intergers to `nat` unnecessarily.